README.md, before:

# Scripts
A collection of convenience scripts i use from time to time.

---

## convert
Finds markdown files from `cwd` and converts it to *PDF* using *pandoc* and *basictex* with optional use of a variety of [pandoc templates](github.com/sutne/pandoc-templates) by having the following the markdown yaml metadata:
```yaml
template: template-name.tex
```

## zipper
Adds all files and subdirectories from `cwd` to a zip, but exclude all files/folders contained in any `.gitignore` files.

## installs
A directory with some script to quickly and painlessly install what i need to get my mac up and running. I usually reset my mac once a year to clear clutter and these scripts makes that process a lot easier.

--- 

## Making the scripts executable from anywhere


### Step 1: Make the scripts executable
Make sure 
```
#! /usr/bin/env python3
```
Is at the top of the script. Then use the following command for the relevant script:
```
chmod +x <script_name>
```
Keep in mind that `<script_name>` is what you will use to envoke the script, make sure its unique and doesn't collide with anything else. This is also why the files are saved without extension, so you can write `zipper` instead of `zipper.py`.

---

### Step 2: Make it runnable from everywhere

To do this we just have to add the directory the script are saved in to `$PATH`, which will make all scripts in that directory executable from anywhere.

Customize the following line to match the location of the scripts:

```sh
export PATH="<path-to-script-dir>:$PATH"
```

> for me this is: 
> ```
> export PATH="Users/sutne/GitHub/Scripts/bin:$PATH"
> ```

and paste it into a new line in one of the following files (depending on which shell you use):

> You scan wap out TextEdit with any application, `nano` will be an in-terminal editor.

#### bash
```sh
open -a TextEdit ~/.bash_profile
```

#### zsh
```sh
open -a TextEdit ~/.zshrc
```

Commit message:

make purger accept file extensions

README.md, after:

# Scripts
A collection of convenience scripts i use from time to time.

---

## convert
Finds markdown files from `cwd` and converts it to *PDF* using *pandoc* and *basictex* with optional use of a variety of [pandoc templates](github.com/sutne/pandoc-templates) by having the following the markdown yaml metadata:
```yaml
template: template-name.tex
```

## zipper
Adds all files and subdirectories from `cwd` to a zip, but exclude all files/folders contained in any `.gitignore` files.

## purger
Give it a complete filename or an extension and it will find all instances that match and ask you if you want to move them to the trash or not.

## installs
A directory with some script to quickly and painlessly install what i need to get my mac up and running. I usually reset my mac once a year to clear clutter and these scripts makes that process a lot easier.

--- 

## Making the scripts executable from anywhere


### Step 1: Make the scripts executable
Make sure 
```
#! /usr/bin/env python3
```
Is at the top of the script. Then use the following command for the relevant script:
```
chmod +x <script_name>
```
Keep in mind that `<script_name>` is what you will use to envoke the script, make sure its unique and doesn't collide with anything else. This is also why the files are saved without extension, so you can write `zipper` instead of `zipper.py`.

---

### Step 2: Make it runnable from everywhere

To do this we just have to add the directory the script are saved in to `$PATH`, which will make all scripts in that directory executable from anywhere.

Customize the following line to match the location of the scripts:

```sh
export PATH="<path-to-script-dir>:$PATH"
```

> for me this is: 
> ```
> export PATH="Users/sutne/GitHub/Scripts/bin:$PATH"
> ```

and paste it into a new line in one of the following files (depending on which shell you use):

> You scan wap out TextEdit with any application, `nano` will be an in-terminal editor.

#### bash
```sh
open -a TextEdit ~/.bash_profile
```

#### zsh
```sh
open -a TextEdit ~/.zshrc
```
